# Acknowledgements

Of course, this page could not start without a proper mention to my supervisor, Prof. Giancarlo Manzi. I am grateful to him for his offer to work on this delicate topic, allowing me to nurture my interest for sustainability and statistical modelling. Prof. Manzi supported me since the very beginning of this project, providing aid and promptly answering my requests - while also granting me the independence to research and explore Milan's BikeMi data and statistical methods.

Many thanks to Marco Repetto, brilliant PhD candidate and data scientist at Siemens - who I first met as teaching assistant and ended up to be my advisor for this project. Marco showed me the way to Python and - more broadly - open source software, which are the best (if not the only tool) to ensure open science and truly reproducible and accessible research. Thanks to Paolo Maranzano, who - up to a certain extent - has been shadow-advisor, for his precious advice about time series.

Thanks to Balázs for the meticulous effort in reviewing my drafts, as well as for the time spent together during the weekends at the Main Building of the European Central Bank, both working at our projects during the (not-so-crazy) hot and definitely sunny summer months. Thanks to Jeanne, Tosca, Raffaella and Anke and many more of the amazing people at the Directorate General Research, who never stopped cheering for me and trying to answer my doubts (or rants).

This list is getting long - and should be longer, indeed - but this will likely be my last dissertation (at least for a while) and it would be a shame not to acknowledge the people who shared this journey with me. Chiara and Isabella became some of my closest friends, partly because of the time spent together while Trenord was late (*coincidenze? Io non credo*) - but I must say the same of Veronica, Alessandra, Alessandro F. and Alessandro V., as well as Marvin and Max. Of course, being Italian, I came to terms with the fact that I need to play my role till the very end. So, finally: thanks to my parents, Cristina and Fulvio, who I have always looked up to and who have always wanted the best for me. Thank you, Teresa, for putting up with my work and for always being at my side.
